[music]
>> Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> Joe, you know I have some uh
prepper tendencies.
>> Yeah, this
>> Slightly prepper tendencies.
>> I know
>> Prepper adjacent.
>> I know you do because my plan for when
everything when everything goes bad is
to bring my family over to your place.
So I'm relying on you actually.
>> That's fine. I actually figured that and
I've been building an extra store of
supplies.
>> I'm going to like send you a whole list
of things my kids like to eat and stuff
like that just so that we're
>> Just so that we're all ready, yeah.
Okay. Well, one of the things I saw on a
bunch of the prepper boards that I
sometimes look at. I don't want people
to think that I'm crazy about it, but I
find it interesting. I I find it
interesting seeing how people's like
insecurities manifest in physical stuff,
but anyway.
One of the things everyone was saying
was you need to start taking cash out
because of the situation in Iran because
we're all expecting a big cyber attack
that's going to absolutely destroy the
US financial infrastructure.
>> By the way, have I told you my idea for
a business of like I've looked at
prepper meals like prepared meals and
they all look terrible. Like a slightly
high-end version for yuppies, I think
would be really good. Like something
that you know, like some nice uh
>> I think it's a physical limitation on
how good you can actually get like dry
food.
>> Science can do a lot of things these
days. Anyway, let's let's talk about the
actual issue at hand. Yeah, well, are
you taking cash out?
>> No, I haven't still have I haven't yet.
I'm relying on my store of gold and
silver. That's right. But I think this
raises a legitimate and actually very
interesting topic, which is what do we
know about Iran's cyber, I guess,
facilities, skills, what could happen in
this context, and then also
everything that's going on with the
world of AI, right? Like, cybersecurity,
cyber hacking,
it's changing really rapidly given this
new technology.
>> Totally. I mean, also just with in the
context of the war itself, setting aside
hypothetical doom scenarios, there's a
really interesting report in the
Financial Times about Israel having been
able to hack into all of the traffic
lights in Tehran. Almost unbelievable
and shocking, but there's already within
the war itself, or even over the last
couple of years, there was the Pager
attack that Israel had executed. And so,
yes, cyber is part of it, and the timing
is wild here because speaking of AI, it
was just on Friday, we're recording this
March 5th, I'm not exactly sure the date
it's coming out, but a week ago,
basically, there was the news, the
complete collapse of the Anthropic
relationship with the Department of
Defense or the Department of War. And
so, it's all in the mix right now, and
how is AI actually going to change
warfare, and what are the national
security implications of AI, and AI and
hacking, there is a lot in this sort of
mix that's all happening right now.
>> Absolutely. The thing that really caught
my eye was the story about a hacker
using Claude to hack into like the
Mexican government system. Did you see
that?
>> really interesting cuz it seemed like
the hacker extracted a bunch of
information from Claude itself. You
know, I'm pretty sure you cannot go to
Claude code and say like I want to break
into the Mexican government website,
help me like build this app. It won't do
that, it's trained to avoid malicious
uses, but people find a way to jailbreak
them, people find a way to sort of
extract information from the AI itself
that has in its training and so forth.
And [snorts] there's been examples of
leaks where, you know, people upload
data to the AI and somehow other people
see it. Anyway, there's a lot here that
we have to learn more about.
>> We should talk about all of it, and we
do, in fact, have the perfect guest.
Someone who's been on the podcast
before, but it's been a while. We're
going to be speaking with Matt Swish. He
is the founder of OEDB, which is a data
infrastructure startup for agentic AI.
So, honestly, the perfect person
>> hacker.
>> A legendary French hacker, I should have
said that first. Matt, thank you so much
for coming back on All Thoughts.
>> Thank you very much. It's been a while
now. I think it's been what, 4 years?
>> Yeah, I think it has been.
>> The last time we spoke to you, you were
still in Dubai, and now you're coming to
us from Sweden in a very
Gustavian-looking background over there.
>> I think actually when we talked to you
it's right after Russia's invasion of
Ukraine. So, I guess yeah, wow, that has
been almost 4 years now.
>> there's a war, we call you, Matt.
>> But because war is so intermixed with
cyber espionage, cyber security,
hacking, and so forth, it's a natural
natural time.
>> So, for the benefit of people who didn't
listen to the episode 4 years ago, can
you just give some context around who
you actually are and your sort of
history in the hacking community,
including, you know, Shadow Brokers and
the WannaCry era and all that stuff?
>> So, I've been in enterprise software for
almost like 20 years, particularly cyber
security.
And uh my name appeared in a
few of the different leaks because of
various analysis that I have done of
like private information that was being
leaked, but also a lot of attacks that
happened that happened to target
critical infrastructure over the last 10
years.
And last time we were on the podcast, uh
one of the thing we talked about is
does cyber uh really matter once you
enter into a kinetic war, which is
exactly what's happening now.
And the main takeaway was once you start
using missiles, most of these cyber
elements are not really relevant because
you would use cyber mostly to gather
information and intelligence
>> Right.
>> to prepare an attack or to disorganize
an enemy, you create confusion. But as
we have seen now,
you can use like drones that are like
$20,000 and create more chaos that you
would do with any sort of exploits.
>> You know, I like how you're introduced
as a legendary hacker, and then you're
like, "Oh, I've been 20 years in
enterprise software." I feel like this
is like the the Winnie the Pooh meme is
like, you know, the casual and then
fancy dress up.
>> Hacker and then enterprise software.
>> 20 years in
enterprise software. But, this is a
really interesting point that you made.
This idea between, okay, mostly it
sounds like when people imagine cyber
attacks, they imagine what Tracy talked
about in the beginning. Suddenly, the
entire financial infrastructure like it
just come to a halt. People worried
about or there's going to be a blackout,
etc. But, in reality or what we've seen
so far by and large is that cyber in the
context of war is still much more about
data collection, espionage, and so forth
rather than these more like, you know,
the types of things you might see in a
movie.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, over the last
like 10 15 years, we have seen some like
attacks like cyber attacks against a
critical infrastructure.
Iran targeted like Aramco around like
2012. They were just mostly like using a
what we call a wiper that was like a
malware that was erasing the hard drive
of most of the machines.
And then we obviously have the case of
Stuxnet few years before where it was a
joint Israeli-US operation against some
of the nuclear centrals in Iran where
some of the PLCs were targeted.
But, what we have seen over the weekend
is some of the drones happened to target
some of the Amazon data centers.
>> Right.
>> And that created so much instability
because multiple of the zones have been
down and I think two out of three and
the third one is still recovering days
after.
Because most of companies, either
private companies or public companies,
are relying on the cloud, which is
something that was not really the case
before.
And once you have some sort of
centralization
in terms of dependence, you also become
an easy target. And most of
governments, AI companies, cloud
companies do not really have
$20,000 drones in their threat models,
which is like something that's pretty
new, but also confirms that
kinetic walls can have more impact.
>> So, I take the point about cyber being
perhaps more useful before a war when it
comes to info gathering and things like
that. But we have seen some deployment
of cyber attacks in the past week or so.
So, we know Israel is attacking some
cyber infrastructure in Iran, and we
know that Iran has
perhaps attempted some things, maybe not
as successfully. But walk us through
what we've actually seen so far.
>> So, so far we have seen an Israeli
operation where one of the prayer app
has been hijacked and some message was
sent to the users. So, it's more like to
create confusion within people.
>> Mhm.
>> Also, the traffic light operation to
understand the position of some of the
target, but it's more used for like
reconning.
And in terms of destruction, we didn't
see anything significant. Even the
government itself of Iran shut down most
of the internet
for a lot of the users. And a lot of
what we see on social media is the usual
disinformation and misinformation
campaign, especially now with AI,
there's so much AI slop with like the
videos, the text, the bots
that's becoming pretty common now, even
when there is no war. So, it's not
really like really impactful. So, like
it's more like to create confusion than
being actually destructive. And now
we're definitely entering in a stage
where
it's been extremely uh destructive and I
cannot remember the last time we've seen
so many countries being targeted, which
is pretty like a first, I would say, in
term of like a war climate.
>> Can you talk about, you know, people
stare at their screens all day and they
fool themselves into thinking that
they're quote monitoring the situation,
etc., but most
>> projection, Joe?
>> I don't delude myself. No, I like
actually like I sort of look at my
screen and I know that I'm being
inundated with contextless garbage and
slop and propaganda and so forth. I'm
curious how you monitor the situation
actually as someone who takes these
topics seriously and doesn't just sort
of become a overnight expert, you know,
the day after bombings begin. Like, how
do you pay attention to what matters?
How do you actually know what's real and
so forth and avoid just sort of the
delusion of staring at the screen and
and engaging with slop.
>> It's a It's a good question because
there's so much of it, so
I think the default reaction is to
ignore most of it.
>> Yeah.
>> Unless it becomes really significant. In
this case, I think it comes down to
looking at the actual damage. Many
people from the military world, but also
the intelligence community has been
underestimating Iran's capabilities
exactly like people used to do with
North Korea and now North Korea has some
of the best hackers in the world. When
you we see them like targeting financial
institutions,
whereas before they would not do like
much. So, there is definitely like
internal capabilities that are
available,
but there is so much noise now, like you
said, a lot of people are monitoring the
situation,
giving their quote and quote like
overnight expert opinions,
>> Yeah.
>> and that's becoming a lot of noise,
but I would say that in this particular
case, we have heard of the imminent
threat of Iran for around 40 years.
>> Right.
>> And that's also not really a new
situation. So, most of people would have
uh context around it.
And even for like the attack that
happened last weekend, many people were
expecting them for weeks,
>> [music]
>> especially as they are continuation of
what happened last summer.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Can you actually talk a little bit more
about the data center attack? And um
because that's not cyber really. I mean,
that's just that's just a physical
that's kinetic warfare against a data
center. I was surprised how disruptive
was that? I sort of would assume that
cloud service providers that it's fairly
liquid. Okay, one goes down, but you
know, it can just be the same software
can be run from numerous other clouds.
But, I saw that there were disruptions.
I saw Fortnite tweeting about the fact
that some of their gameplay was impaired
due to the attack on data centers. How
disruptive have those attacks been?
Because this is of course a very, you
know,
>> This is where kinetic meets cyber.
>> And there's a lot you know, in in future
like think about hardening these data
centers. And as you say like making them
they're going to be increasingly targets
for war. Like how disruptive was that?
>> Uh very good question. So,
I think one of
the the main takeaways that it has been
extremely successful.
So, like we said before, like a Shahed
drone is on $20,000 and they managed to
shut down
two of the zones of Amazon. Actually,
even if you look at the official report
from Amazon
for like 36 hours, they were just
saying, "Oh, some objects struck the
data centers." Before they actually
explicitly said they were drone strikes.
So, a lot of services that have been
using them have been targeted. So, from
like local applications from to banks
because in a data center, you are taking
care of multiple different services.
>> Right.
>> And even Versel had to reroute uh their
data to Bombay and to exclude
like Middle East as a deployment. So,
even if you take the cost of most of
like zero-day exploits that can go up to
like
multi-million dollar attacks,
if you are really aiming at destructing
things,
the cost
reward of using such an attack is
really efficient. So, you really enter
into some sort of asymmetric conflict
where you can just spend like some
really old
material and have way more impact than
someone who's going to be like cutting
edge and just trying to impress with
like capabilities because at the end of
the day, it does not really matter.
>> Mhm.
>> How do governments actually build up
their cyber capabilities nowadays? Cuz I
have this image in my head of maybe 10
or 20 years ago, you know, they would
recruit like a 20-year-old such as
yourself at the time
and they would be working in a dark
room, that sort of thing.
>> But then Drinking Red Bull.
>> Drinking Red Bull, that's right. But
then, you know, we had the boom in
Silicon Valley and so you had
competition from private companies. Now,
we have the boom in AI and again, even
more competition from private companies
and at the same time, governments seem
to be, I guess, ceding some of their own
skill set to potentially private
companies like Anthropic and ChatGPT and
some others.
Walk us through how, I guess, the
development of governmental cyber
capacity has actually shifted.
>> I mean, something that didn't really
change over the last like years in term
of capabilities, like I guess we all
remember like these Snowden leaks in
when we started to see more about the
inside of like capabilities from a a
government
including like domestic mass
surveillance, global surveillance,
exploitation capabilities.
And since then, every year over the
year, we have seen an history of data
being leaked that belongs to uh the
government.
So, in a way, things have been changing
a lot, but not really much. Like most
recently, there was a contractor from
L3Harris
that was uh sentenced to 87 months uh
sentence because he happened to sell uh
zero-day exploits to a Russian broker.
And that's for uh like
actual uh exploit that belong to to the
government because there was some sort
of integrator. So, we see like
nation-states or like governments like
the US investing like enormous amount of
money into offensive capabilities, but
they also keep being burned by insiders.
>> Mhm.
>> A lot of those capabilities are also as
strong as the internal coercion.
>> But I guess what I'm asking is, you
know, if you're the Department of
Defense or I guess now the Department of
War, and you're thinking about
developing in-house capabilities versus
partnering with a company like
Anthropic, and we should talk about all
the drama that's going on there. How are
you balancing those decisions nowadays
versus say 10 or 20 years ago?
>> Like my understanding is that now a lot
of it is also like outsourced because
they cannot really develop uh as many
capabilities internally.
So, now like we have seen with uh
Anthropic
that it had been used in the Maduro
operation.
>> Right.
>> And then after that, like they was a
pull out from Anthropic because they
said it was violating
their ethical like
policies. Yeah, standards.
>> So, I would say now something that's
really changing like very fast is the
incorporation of like AI into those
decisions.
But as we already know like AI can also
hallucinate. So, even though the CEO of
Anthropic said it's definitely not in a
state where it can be used for like
fully autonomous decisions like that.
So, I would say like the AI element
would be like the main difference. Even
we start to see it now for like
exploit development or vulnerability
discovery. But it's still too early
to kind of like give a definitive like
opinion about it.
But overall, I would say it's very
similar.
>> Well, talk to us about exploit
development because I know that you
can't just go to Claude Code and say
like I'm working on a zero-day malware
attack, help me figure this out. But,
you know, I also know that there are
some very talented people who pride
themselves in being able to jailbreak AI
and elicit outputs that the labs do not
want their AIs to produce.
[clears throat] So, do you have a sense
how just within the pure like hacker
community AI is being employed today for
these purposes or what they're able to
get out of these tools?
>> It's a good question. So, like we
started to see people leveraging like AI
for like bug discovery, which actually
is becoming like pretty good. I think
even Anthropic published an article
explaining how Claude can be used for
the discovery into smart contracts and
how it found some bugs automatically.
And I think even recently they released
something called
Claude for security that was aiming at
doing uh
code uh
assessment. But now we're entering into
this like interesting paradigm shift
where the cost of software is going
towards a zero. So if you're a company
and if your cost of building software is
becoming less and less, it's also hard
to convince people that auditing
software for security reasons is going
to be more expensive than developing the
actual software. So I think that's one
of the shift we're going to see. But
when it
>> Wait, sorry. Can you explain Sorry,
pause that. Pause that last part. What
What did you mean by that? It's going to
be hard to convince
>> If If you're going to have like
to allocate budget
for like building a product, so you have
most of the budget that's usually
allocated for like your software
engineers to build the software and then
you do some code review afterwards to
make sure there's no vulnerabilities
before it gets released to the public.
But security is a risk is usually like
pretty high. You cannot just rely on
like AI tools, at least not at the
moment.
Maybe in a year from now it's going to
be possible.
So
it's going to be like really interesting
to see how it's going to like do like
market shift because now with cloud code
and as a famous vibe coder, Joe, I'm
sure you know that, [laughter]
the the cost of building software is
approaching like zero if you just look
on the timeline.
>> Are you actually on this note? Are you a
believer in the SaaS-pocalypse? Because
obviously there's the argument that well
now everyone can just create their own
software fairly easily using natural
language. But on the other hand, if
you're a big corporation or presumably a
government, you're going to want to have
You're going to still want to buy
software from an external provider given
some of the security concerns, given
that it might not necessarily make sense
for various reasons, management reasons
perhaps, that recreate an entire
software business in-house.
>> So, I'm definitely biased on that, but
as someone who thinks that the cost of
software is going to up zero, and as
someone who is like watching the
software cost like collapsing,
one of the thing that we realized is
that data is the only durable asset in
the AI economy. That's why we decided to
work on DB, the current startup uh
I'm uh working on. Because like that's
the only thing that's really going to
have value long-term if agents need
something to to transact or like to take
decision on. Because even if you look in
term of like
in any context, you know, if agents are
designed to think autonomously, you need
to have enough information to take those
decisions whenever you're going to have
your reasoning loops. So, software
itself, if you just build it, is pretty
static.
Whereas like the agentic like feedback
loops are more dynamic, but what changes
is the context they take decision on.
So, definitely like SaaS businesses are
going to have a hard time because
if anyone, including the Shopify CEO,
can just rewrite an MRI software in one
afternoon just to like look at his back
MRIs, you can imagine like
how disruptive it's going to be like by
the end of this year. I think the only
thing we haven't seen yet is like
enterprise AI agent. So, so far, I would
say that since Christmas,
people are mostly like still playing
around trying to find like a proper like
use case.
Uh we see a lot of like consumer like AI
agent like
>> Mhm.
>> open claw that really made like agents
uh more mainstream, but we really
haven't seen yet enterprise AI agent.
So, as everyone is kind of scared of
being replaced for their jobs,
we haven't really seen like actual like
AI agents replacing entire departments
or full on like employees. So, we have
seen some disruption around like
software engineering mostly to make like
software engineering more efficient,
especially in term of like
uh development with shorter like
timelines, but we haven't seen yet like
proper like enterprise AI agents.
>> How do you define an AI agent?
>> So, my view of an AI agent and I like to
remind people like what an AI agent
actually is
at the moment most of AI agent is just
like a piece of code usually written in
Python or in TypeScript that's just
doing a bunch of calls to like Anthropic
or OpenAI and running in a loop and
taking decisions and calling like
third-party tools like MCPs or web
searches.
>> Mhm.
>> So, that's mostly what an uh AI agent
is. We tend to think of AI agent as
a completely like different persona, but
at the end of the day it is just like a
piece of software that's running as a
service on a machine or on a server. So,
from a security standpoint, which is
pretty interesting, it's just like
another service or like software.
But, people really like to
think of it uh in another way.
>> Well, just so like I'm from the security
standpoint. I mean, one of the exciting
aspects of AI agents is that they can
work autonomously, right? You set a task
and it can go out and find what it needs
to do and it says like, "Okay, this
didn't work. I'm going to try It's going
to try this thing. It's going to try
this thing. Oh, I need to connect to
this web service to get this
information, etc."
The downside of AI agents is precisely
the same. The downside of AI agents is
that they could do whatever they want to
do. And if it accidentally deletes a
bunch of files because it thinks that's
what's necessary to execute the task.
So, like I'm curious like from a
security standpoint
like I mean, we've already seen examples
of people getting private information
exposed or as I mentioned the example of
deleting a bunch of information. Is this
like a new way to think about the
security threat model, the fact that the
capability and the downside are one in
the same. It's the same It's sort of
like hallucinations, right? The ability
to like create an output and it also,
you know, is hand in [clears throat]
hand with the ability to create a wrong
output, a false output. And so, you
know, the ability to do a
to act on its own is also the ability to
destroy on its own. Is this sort of like
a novel threat model or a novel paradigm
in thinking about enterprise security?
>> From an enterprise security standpoint,
it is pretty much the same thing in the
sense of
like if you're building software, you
cannot just really like patch software
afterwards and stuff because you never
It never ends. Like security must be
like built in and you need to have like
a safe design from the beginning. What
do we have seen now is like whenever
people do something agentic,
they just give you like all permissions
up front. Yeah. Which is like probably
the worst thing you can do and if you're
an enterprise, as you can imagine, if
you just give like all permissions to an
agent, it just becomes Murphy's laws. If
something bad can happen because you
gave it access to, it will happen. So,
you're going to see like more data leaks
for sure because there's no
safety by design in those like
architectures or like those like agents.
Which is in term of vulnerabilities and
like exposure
would be like very similar to to what we
have seen
over the last like 10 20 years.
But, you know, if people are ignoring
what has been done in term of software
security for the last 20 years,
that's where we're going to have a lot
of problems and I think we're probably
going to start to see like people,
especially in enterprise, like pushing
back a lot because there's compliance
that needs to be like,
you know, like answered to. So, you
cannot just give like full access to
like, you know, your agent.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Speaking of the long arc of history, one
thing I really wonder is you've
obviously been in the space for a very
long time at this point. Can you
describe how you think your own career
and I guess coding experience would have
been different if you were, say,
starting out now in 2026 versus I guess
you would have started out in like the
late '90s or early 2000s, maybe even
before that.
>> Yeah, mid mid-2000. Well, I would say
like what has changed is
back even like we even we've up going to
like the 2000s like
back in those olden days when
the global surveillance program was
being exposed like a lot of people were
really like scared of it and scandalized
by it
and pushed back and people really cared
about privacy.
Was like now we're entering in a new arc
where very few people care about
privacy.
Where you see like the CEO of Anthropic
being asked
why he refused to work with the US
government
and he says, "Well, they wanted to do a
domestic surveillance program, so that's
against
our like safety like chart."
So, there's this whole aspect of people
relationship with data, which I guess is
very different.
In term of software, obviously, like now
you can write more things. Anyone can
write anything. But, I think we're still
in this weird
adequate software phase where
we know what AI can do,
but it cannot really do like anything
more, anything less yet. We're still
haven't seen like
the actual like use case for it.
Because
it's obviously like very exciting and it
feels like a lot of it is very different
from before,
but we don't really have like any
evidence of how it's really helping in
national security.
I know it's been helping people who have
been analyzing like Epstein's emails
because there's a lot of data and that
makes it faster.
But in term of like real use case, I
don't think the like it feels like the
current world is very different than
before, but there's so much noise and so
much like slop all over that
in a way it is pretty similar. I don't
know if that makes sense.
>> Well, I mean
>> Yeah.
>> Your company is ondb.ai.
So you must think that it's going to be
used or that you know, or that there's
clearly something there. Actually tell
us about I'm actually really I'm on I'm
on your website right now. It looks
really interesting because it's
something I've been thinking about, but
you must have some vision for like where
it's going and that there will actually
be significant demand for these
services.
>> Sure. I mean like I was saying like I
think now we've like
anything that's agentic, building
software which is like the main use case
so far for AI, it's going to make
software like going to zero. So the cost
of building software is going to uh
zero.
>> So that's real. So like say like there's
in your view there's no question that
already AI, I mean talk about a use it's
a pretty big use case right there
bringing the cost of building software
to zero.
>> Yeah, I mean like even if you look at
the offer of cloud code, yeah, he said
they didn't write like code since
November. So it like a lot of people are
like this, you know, even us internally.
Like we definitely like use cloud code a
lot. But if software is going to zero,
like what's left
in term of like the internet layers. So,
our conclusion is that data is uh
>> Yeah.
>> the only thing that's going to be like
timeless in the AI economy.
So, building like a layer for that,
especially now there's like
all those innovations around like
payments and stablecoin that you can use
to actually like pay like anything
online.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we think like okay, if
you have like uh issues like Anthropic
or like OpenAI just scrapping internet
and using like public internet, so you
may as well find ways of charging like
bots or agents for your data, so at
least you can
have this new like revenue unlock that's
going to emerge in this like new
economy.
Because I think a lot of the traditional
like
economic model like for instance like we
said like with SaaS
are going to be like disrupted a lot.
So, there is a completely like new
market around how people are going to
consume data. And I think people people
would just be ready to pay like more to
have high-quality data. Because the more
noise there is, the more you want to
make sure that the data you have access
to is going to be
like uh valuable and real. So,
yeah, even from a security standpoint,
you know, like once you build like an
infrastructure layer, you can have this
like built-in security to make sure that
the data you give back or the access
like for the interface that we define is
actually secure. Because
even if you look at Open Clo for
instance, one of the top skill was
malware. So,
it's like people just like living in
this like wild west where they just run
everything. So,
it's us anticipating that enterprise is
going to look very different and they
won't just run like anything they find
online.
>> Yeah, you know, this is one of the
things that I've encountered in my vibe
coding forest is that one of the
annoying things is, okay, you want the
agent to like go out and grab some
information or query some database or
whatever.
And then it's like, okay, like let me
know when you've gotten a an API.
They're like, okay, come back and get an
API. And then you have to like go to a
website, and then you have to like get
out your credit card, and you have to
set up an account, and then you like get
an API key, and then you copy and paste
it and so forth. And that's very
annoying. I want what I want is for the
agent to just be able to go there say,
oh, you know, like let me just pay you
with some stable coins, etc. Just go out
and get the information on its own
without having this human in the loop.
But it also occurs to me, and this is
something that I've asked about with
others, which is that like once I'm just
like entirely operating in the terminal
and the agent is going out and scraping
information for me, etc. Like why do we
even have a free public internet
anymore? And so like I'm curious like
whether the direction of the internet
and information in general is just
entirely like, you know, paying micro
transaction or fees for data consumption
so that the data then arrives in some
usable form in the terminal that I'm
operating on.
>> Yeah, no, I think you're you're you're
raising some
really good points. We we need to talk
after. You can be our our new design
partner, you know.
>> Yeah,
>> [laughter]
>> I can be a consultant. He's going to
hack all the API keys for
>> be a I can be a consultant. No, I hate
having to deal with all these API keys,
and why am I still using my credit card?
>> like completely right. See, I told you
you're famous vibe coder [laughter] now,
you know. It's like but like the use
case you're describing now is like
makes entire sense. That's why like we
position ourselves kind of like as a
trusted like provider where like instead
of having to go like everywhere
to get data, you know, you have like
this single point and unified access, a
bit like open router for AI models, but
for the data providers. Because if you
think about it, when you use like Claude
now in your terminal, like
the level one is basically you asking
the model itself for information, but as
we know, like the model may be like a
few months old and does not have access
to all the information. So, like the
second level is the agent like Claude
God or
or Claude for desktop or like uh chat
GPT doing web searches. And that's just
them looking on the internet.
>> Yeah.
>> Doing like a Google search, etc.
But that's still not giving you access
to like the actual like relevant data
that you would need. Where for instance,
you would have like those API keys and
stuff. So, like
the level after that is basically access
to private information. So, on private
information, usually the one that's
valuable, like in the case of Bloomberg
for instance, uh Bloomberg has a lot of
extremely valuable information, but you
can only
it through the terminal once you have
the subscription.
Or like any SaaS services, if you think
of like SaaS platform are just like some
fancy UI where you can like browse the
database, but the uh data that's
valuable is just in the database
directly.
So, if you would have access to those
APIs
and would not have to create like 1
million subscriptions left and right uh
because there's already like someone
who's doing the integration for that.
Kind of like as a programmatic like API
marketplace, but the integration now is
like much easier. And especially if you
trust it, because now what we have seen
also is like whenever you use
or those tools, they make you install
like MCPs, but more and more people are
like moving away from MCPs. They're just
using like skills because
like you just said,
we start to spend more time into the
terminal. So, like the terminal and
anything that's CLI is becoming like a
natural interface for like agents, even
for humans. Because you don't need to
try to understand those like fancy UI
and UX. You just say like, "Okay, I want
to do it or ABC." Just do that. So, I
think it just makes more sense to have
like this interface for it. And like
like you said, you know, like otherwise
it's just like it becomes too
complicated.
>> Just on this note, can we talk a little
bit about, I guess, institutional
knowledge of code? Because I remember
one of the things that happened in the
early days of AI development. I mean,
not that early. I think it was like 2017
or something back when Facebook's AI lab
still existed. What was that called
again?
Like the acronym was FAIR or something.
Yeah, they had like a little Facebook
like experimental lab. Anyway, they
invented a bunch of chatbots, and the
chatbots started talking to each other
in pretty much incomprehensible
language. But like they clearly
understood what each other were saying.
And so I'm just wondering if you
extrapolate that to AI-generated code,
could we have a situation where the
models are constantly iterating on
themselves, they're constantly talking
to each other, and so we end up with a
system that becomes very, very difficult
for human engineers and coders to
actually understand?
>> Yeah, I mean, that I think what we're
going to start to see is like you
humans, you know, like us are going to
move towards like creating like markdown
files as like a programming language.
So, everything is just going to be like
normal like language.
But for the machine itself, obviously,
yeah, I remember that video. Uh that is
like gibberish like voice like transfer
thing. Well, if you think about it, it's
not that much different from voice to
text in that sense. And at the end of
the day, it's just like bits like being
transferred because even like whenever
you connect on a web page, you know,
like you write it in text, but behind
it's just like
bytes that are being exchanged. So,
agents
still need to agree on the protocol that
they're going to use, and not
necessarily an encryption format, but an
encoding format.
So, once you know what it is, you know,
it just becomes like
like a reverse engineering problem, or
like a forensic problem, where you're
just like, okay, like this is what's
being used when those packets are being
sent, you know, let me just decrypt it.
Once you know the protocol, you know,
like that's
So, I don't think we're going to end up
in a
situation where like we would have like
no idea of it, because you're always
going to have like people who are like
pretty good like reverse engineers, but
at the same time you're also going to
have your like AI assistant who's going
to help you to like reverse engineer
those things. So, in a way, even if it
happens, like you are not like alone
with your red bull and your laptop.
>> [laughter]
>> I know AI agents. We all going to have
AI agents.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
that's also like the reality of things.
So, we're we're like far from just like
the Clippy uh plugin that we used to
have in Microsoft Office. Now, you can
have this like CLI interface where you
just give like commands.
>> Yeah.
>> And then it translate that into like,
okay, I understand what I need to do,
you know? And that's it.
>> No, I love like interacting with just
the CLI now, and like every time I have
to go to the web, it feels like some
sort of failure. Like I'm like, oh, I
have to go to this bright website. Yeah,
and I just like want the information
right there on the black screen talking,
you know, communicating back and forth
in English.
>> Given that background, you know, that's
like feeling familiar for you.
>> You know, something I think about is I
imagine that there's a lot of like
crusty old Linux and Unix programmers
who are like, oh, this code is this
isn't high-quality code that the AI that
the chatbots produce. This is slop code.
It needs all kinds of fixing, and so
forth. From your perspective, is the
code itself of good quality or of
improving quality? How just the lines of
code itself from your standards, is it
good stuff?
>> Yeah, it's pretty good. Then even when
it's bad, you just tell it okay, like
this is bad, you know, like just do it
better, you know? Like if you're using
like negative rewards, you know, if you
say okay, like this piece of code is
garbage, you know, it's going to
understand better because you kind of
give like a strong emotion. Whereas like
if you say, "Oh, it's okay." You know,
it's just be like, "Okay, like
whatever." You know, if it's okay, it
means it's passing like the the adequate
test. Whereas like if you say, "Okay,
that's garbage, rewrite it." Then
>> I would I always do this. So, if I ask a
bot for something, I will always say
like after the first version like do
better and just see what it comes up
with and then just try to iterate on it.
>> This is this is tough because you're
talking when you're talking in English,
you the brain deludes itself into
thinking that you're talking to or when
you're talking human language, any
language, the brain deludes itself. You
feel like you're talking to a person.
>> So, you have to be nice.
>> Well, then I feel like
>> have that problem, Jake.
>> [laughter]
>> Oh, really? But then I feel like I like
I don't want to say, "Oh, this is
garbage." I don't but from your
perspective, it's actually sort of
important to
to be firm with the bot and you get
better results by being more sharp with
it.
>> Yeah, because it's it's the equivalent
equivalent of a negative reward like
just like positive reward. If you if it
does something, you will say, "Okay,
like that's great. That's exactly what I
tried to explain." Then it's like,
"Okay, like
that's like a reference point." Whereas
like if it starts to go on a tangent,
you just say like, "Oh, that's
completely like out of the line. Re-
redo this. Like why are you doing this?"
You know, like
the more explicit you are,
>> Yeah.
>> the better it's going to understand how
far it is from the requirements.
>> Well,
I just have to get better at You know,
I'm sort of conflict avoidant.
>> I know.
>> And I I like being nice to people. So, I
just have to get
>> says please and thank you.
>> So, I just uh
>> So, the asterisk doesn't get him.
>> So, yeah, that's right. So, I have to I
just have to be like, "No, this is
trash. This is garbage. You totally
we're all dumber for having seen this
code." Okay, this is good to know.
>> I mean, it's a good point, you know,
like all those like AI companies that
recording all the prompts, you know, so
who knows if they are keeping it, if
there's retention around it, you know,
like we know the OpenAI is keeping them,
you know, like they can get subpoenaed.
Subpoenaed, is that how you pronounce
it?
Yeah, so like who knows, you know, like
in years from now, you know,
if there's like full-on like autonomous
like
>> Yeah.
>> robots managed by the Department of War
because they think it's lawful, so
>> get social scores based on our AI
prompts. Yeah.
>> I I these these thoughts creep into my
head unironically where it's like at
some point is there going to be some am
I going to regret having
I don't know. They I did they they were
there in my head.
>> Truly a brave new world. Matt, just one
last question from me, but going back to
cybersecurity and the current situation
with Iran,
what are you on just the lookout for?
Like what would pique your interest the
most to see in that particular space?
>> Um I think now in that particular space
because I'm one of those people who
think it's related to the Epstein files,
you know, like it's just more about like
getting more Epstein files
related stuff to see if there is like
more connections to it, you know.
So, I think that would be the only thing
that would kind of be like digital that
would like spike my interest.
Because now we have seen, you know, like
um
just those like all drones can do like
so much damage and that Iran
demonstrated that they can be like
really precise with the attacks.
So, now I think it's more about
seeing like which direction it's going
to go to and how long it's going to
last,
which is like the the big like question
mark because there's so many other
components like the energy sector, you
know, like how is it We have seen the
price of like memory like increasing
like a lot. So like now [laughter]
now if they're starting to block like
the Detroit of almost, you know, like
like what's going to happen to like the
cost of data centers and like memory and
AI in general, you know, like we are
going towards on one side, you know, we
are going towards like the cost of
tokens and inference going down, but
that may also like bring the cost up,
you know, so if you're going to use like
AI for like your next generation wars,
but if your enemy can just like increase
your cost of token and inference, what
does that even mean? Like do you even
need AI in the first place? Is it even
relevant? There's also the I think
there's this all like asymmetric like
warfare that's going to happen that we
really haven't seen yet and I think
that's going to be like really
interesting, but at the same time
there's so much noise and so much
so many things happening at once that
it's becoming like extremely like hard
to focus and just like extract like
what's really relevant.
>> Yeah, definitely feels like that. Tough
tough choices potentially coming for
Havelock as your your token costs go up.
Matt, it was so wonderful to reconnect
again. Thank you so much for coming back
[music] on Odd Lots and yeah, you'll
have to get back to Joe about those
APIs.
>> Yeah, I'm happy I'm happy let's let's
>> He's the most famous viper there on
Twitter now.
>> Yeah, bring me on as a consultant.
[laughter]
>> Sounds good.
>> Take care, Matt.
>> Thanks, Matt.
>> Take care. Bye-bye.
>> [music]
>> Joe, always good to catch up with Matt.
>> Super interesting. It's incredible how
much is happening right now at this
particular Nexus, especially obviously
the Anthropic stuff, but I you know,
it's interesting, you know, you think
about cyber warfare and you think about
okay, we're going to hack into a system
and take out critical infrastructure,
but another thing you can do is just
attack a data center directly.
>> send a drone to a data center. I thought
that was really interesting. That sort
of like, we got very used to thinking
about cyber as like this thing that
exists only in in code. But now you have
this like new front of kinetic warfare
where the two like really intersect.
>> do really intersect. And yeah, these are
like huge national security
vulnerabilities. And he he pointed out,
I mean certainly today, but you know,
was this in anyone's threat model
thinking about the risks to it, you
know, the cheapness of drones, the
ability to take them out. Super
interesting. Also just this idea like,
yes, you know, obviously again as your
observation. The point we think of like
cyber attacks like we're going to take
out this whole thing, right? But in
least in the warfare context, his point
like most of it is like before the war
etc. The sort of information gathering
spy spy craft and so forth prior to the
actual the actual attacks.
>> But it is interesting to see Israel in
particular use some cyber attacks as a
sort of sower of chaos in Iran. I can't
imagine what it's like to actually be on
the ground there at the moment for many
reasons, but like you imagine just being
there worried about your physical safety
and then the traffic lights aren't
working as well.
>> Well, and right. And also just think
like, wait, there's cameras everywhere
or there you know, like how much is
being recorded like create like a sense
of like paranoia among everyone about
about everything.
>> And also the interesting thing,
obviously this is very topical in
markets, but the SAS apocalypse idea.
Matt in particular [clears throat]
seemed pretty bearish on the outlook for
um
existing software companies, I guess.
And I did think his comments about what
that would mean for security budgets
within organizations were pretty
relevant and worrying.
>> Absolutely.
>> All right, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at The Stalwart. Follow our guest
Matt Sweish she's at M Sweish. Follow
our producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman, Dasha Bennett at Dashbot, and
Caleb Brooks at Caleb Brooks. And for
more Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odd lots for the daily
newsletter and all of our episodes. And
you can chat about all of these topics
24/7 in our discord, discord.gg/odd
[music]
lots.
>> And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when we talk about [music] the
intersection of kinetic and cyber
warfare, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely ad-free. All you
need [music] to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
>> [music]
[music]